9:00 am is Shanghai Shenzhen and here in
Hong Kong you're watching the China
show. I'm Y Ivon man with David English.
[music]
>> Good Friday morning from the Asia
Pacific counting down to the open of
markets in greater China. Our top
stories today stocks across the Asia
[music] Pacific trading flat cautiously
sideways. Investors bracing for the US
jobs report and a possible [music]
possible Supreme Court ruling on Trump's
tariffs. Oil extending gains with Iran
and Venezuela [music]
in focus. Bloomberg learns that China
plans to approve imports of Nvidia's
H200 [music] chips as soon as this
quarter, renewing access to a critical
AI market.
>> Speaking of AI, another Chinese startup
[music] is set to debut in Hong Kong
this hour. Will be speaking exclusively
to Minia's co-founder and COO Yu.
>> And Riotinto [music]
share Slide as talks resume with Glen
Core on combining to form the world's
biggest minor.
>> [music]
>> Good Friday morning again. Thank you for
joining us. Lots to get through as we
wrap up the first full [music] trading
week of the year. And as you can see,
it's a quiet book end to well, the the
night is young. uh full trading day
ahead. But so far things look quiet on
the price front. We can talk about
turnover uh in a moment because things
have certainly picked up substantially
in China. You're getting a lot of
bullish calls coming through. Goldman,
Morgan Stanley, more on that uh in a
moment. US futures, as you can see, flat
as with the regional benchmark. We'll be
looking at of course inflation numbers
coming through. That's for December in
about 28 minutes or so. I'll pull back
across some of the big tech winners this
week. Nick is up though. In fact, flip
the page here. We talked about TSMC and
Samsung very much in focus uh this
entire week and as you can see a
pullback in both. Riotinto of course is
the other big story still is in terms of
points and percentage last I checked. Uh
the biggest in the benchmark today on
the back of this restarting of merger
talks with Glen Corey. Von mentioned
that at the top of the show uh also want
to mention separately uh this rally in
defense related names. Hanwa systems one
of them 13%
in Korea uh is another theme that's
emerged this week because of this
geopolitical
premium that's I want to say suddenly
baked in but suddenly we're talking
about it at length right uh the currency
markets uh this is a big could uh you
have the Supreme Court US Supreme Court
on Friday uh they could rule and I say
they could rule because it could be it
it it could be part of the decisions
they lay out. We don't know of course,
but suffice to say this possibly is
consequential globally if indeed the
Supreme Court rules along the lines that
the lower courts have uh in terms of
saying nope uh that specific group of
tariffs that's not legal and you might
have to get that back or you can't
reinstate that or you can't continue.
Anyway, we we'll have more on that in a
moment. Uh US dollar Japanese yen. Okay,
let's whole name the pair. Why? Why not?
Okay, Brent crude massive pop yesterday.
Short squeeze question mark. Extending
those gains today. We're stable across
precious metals. Bottom of the screen is
copper. And of course, the approach to
the open today. A50 futures doing this.
Shanghai crude should see a pop. There
we go. Yep. 1.6%. Dollar China flat
going into the open today.
>> Yeah. In fact, a dollar China just got
that call from Morgan Stanley. They're
expecting 685
>> for rem by the first quarter there. So
expectend expect expecting still some
appreciation uh for remb and really
changing their forecast from a seven
handler north of that uh before. So
certainly that's one thing to watch. Of
course that remedy strength still
remains to be a key theme here. Uh CPI
debt as we mentioned there. Tech metals
energy are the sectors to watch. Give us
some of the news that Dave just
highlighted there. There is a CGB sale.
In terms of the global front though Dave
I think there's a lot of things key
things. The jobs report that certainly
is one thing on the whole Fed
discussion. this oil meeting and the
who's who are going to be attending a
meeting with the Trump administration on
Venezuela on Friday and then as you
mentioned that potential Supreme Court
tariff ruling that could come as early
as today. I'll start with the oil
meeting because there seems to be still
a gap about what the vision that the
Trump administration wants about how
much they can drill, how much access
they get, how who they can sell it to
and and really how
I guess aggressive these oil companies
want to be. Well, they're paying for it.
Yeah. On paper.
>> And I think a lot of them want to at
least see some stability in the
government first before they can
actually put, you know, millions upon
millions of dollars in investment into
repairing all these rigs and the likes.
So,
>> which could be a multi-deade exercise,
right?
>> Even after Trump's terms, right? Yes.
So,
>> yes. And you know, how much degree of
confidence [music] can you put in
something that certainly moves beyond
decades? But yet the point I think is
you know for the the vision to come into
fruition right he will need the support
of the private sector and I think it's
it's it's almost similar to remember a
few months ago when we had the big
>> tech CEOs at the White House and he
talked about we need to do something
about a semiconductor conversation here
>> and it's similar with the energy market
and you kind of had to think right so
it's the two concepts that we're talking
about today whether that's a Supreme
Court ruling possible ruling on tariffs
if you Think about it. That's a grab of
other people's revenues, right? In terms
of em and they might want some of that
back if in favor of the Supreme Court.
And it's also an oil grab if you think
about it too in terms of just
securitizing that that asset uh in terms
of national security. But yeah, it's
very deep conversation longer term and
of course short term is the jobs support
which we'll figure out and of course
Myron talked about you know we're going
to need there's a million Americans
without jobs which we could get into the
job market without causing inflation I
think is the point he was making there
around the Fed conversation.
>> I mean that's still going to be
continuing on whether you know this
weakening jobs market is going to be the
key focus in this whole Fed mandate. Um,
and of course when it comes to Nvidia,
right, I mean the fact that they, it
seems like Beijing has given the green
light according to our sources,
>> uh, that some companies can start
getting access to these H200 chips. You
got to wonder what the Alibabas what,
you know, the 10 cents will do, right?
Will they still lean towards maybe
getting some of these orders into Nvidia
or are they going to go local as well?
>> Yeah. Well, they have two options now.
Yeah, I guess is is and I think that it
came out right before the close in Hong
Kong yesterday. markets already reacted
and I think we talked about how we are
looking at the tech rally as one of the
areas of focus today within the Chinese
market as something that could continue
uh continue if in fact if you look at
what happened overnight uh the golden
dragon index you had really big gains
there on the back of on the back of the
tech story uh the other thing I want to
mention too is you Morgan Stanley
actually came out they're quite busy
Laura Wang and her team right and
they're seeing we've seen a noticeable
really noticeable pickup in sentiment in
China so you have liquidity and turnover
has really really picked up
substantially in fact I
The daily average has been north of 2
and a.5 trillion yuan for the first four
days of this year. Just something to
watch going into this going into this
final session of the week here.
>> They're at least constructive for the
six six to 12 months uh for Chinese
stocks as well. Uh and the key focus is
of course the pipeline that we've seen
when it comes to IPOs in Hong Kong and
we're going to about to see another one.
Miniaax, another one of China's largest
generative AI startups is set to begin
trading in Hong Kong today after an IPO
that raised $619 million. Let's bring in
Stephen Engel. He joins us now uh with
the latest and he joins us live, I
believe, from the Hong Kong Exchange.
Steve, how are things looking today?
>> Yeah, it's getting noisy here.
Obviously, there are several debutants
in addition to Miniax, three in total,
but Miniax garnering a lot of the
attention because it's really u the
survivor of what was a brutal price war
among those generative AI, lower cost, a
lower capital uh and open-source players
in China. And again, that's the big
question going forward for a company
like Miniax, which is a generative AI
play in China. Uh that is similar in
some respects to Open AI's Sora, which
is text to video model. And actually,
Miniax is a multimodal uh has multimodal
capabilities that started in audio and
in video and then eventually evolved to
their uh large language model M2. Uh but
that's maybe where the comparisons with
OpenAI and Sora end because they are a
lower capital company. They have fewer
chips. They have leaner headcounts uh
than all that money that has been put at
Generative AI in the United States like
Anthropic, like Open AI and the bunch.
So, I guess today's uh listing is a bit
of a litmus test to see investors
appetite uh and belief uh that the open-
source lower capital model uh sort of
the no frrills approach to generative AI
has legs and who will survive after what
has already been a brutal price war. So,
those are the questions we'll put
towards uh the co-founder and COO in
about an hour's time.
>> The camera and smile.
>> All right, we'll find out. Steve,
fantastic. Steen Angle there uh on the
ground for us at the exchange. Three
trading debuts today. One of which, as
you were pointing out, of course, is
Miniax, which ticks all the right
buzzword boxes there. Uh the other top
story we're tracking, as we just talked
about there, is you know, the H200 chip
um out of Nvidia and Sean is said to be
planning to approve some imports of the
stuff as soon as as soon as this current
quarter. Let's bring in Edwin Chan, our
Asia Tech managing editor to tell us
about what we know exactly about what's
going to be allowed and the timing uh of
this.
>> Yeah, I think that's the key in terms of
the timing. We're a little firmer on
that. We think it's going to happen
soon, soon as this quarter. So, we're
talking about incoming months most
likely. Y
>> uh where it starts to get a little
uncertain is how the extent to which
China will allow H200s in into the
country. Um so uh our our sources are
telling us that it's going to be
excluded from sensitive networks
obviously but also what they refer to as
critical infrastructure
and when it comes to that that term the
definition can be a bit loose. I think
it depends very much on how say the
commerce ministry or various agencies uh
choose to define it. So the the key
thing to know here is that it's not
going to be a free-for-all. Nvidia will
not have cart blanch to sell H200's that
it's going to be a very carefully vetted
process and it's likely to be at least
initially to a limited extent only.
>> Why do you think there there's a change
it seems from Beijing on this? I mean at
first it was all about we can do it
alone. I'm going to push for you know
our homegrown tech giants to kind of do
it by themselves and self-sufficiency.
What what do you think sparked this sort
of slight change?
>> Probably two key factors. One is uh
fundamental demand. I think the world
cannot get enough of AI accelerators.
Now the H200 is technically a generation
behind or actually two generations
behind the best and the brightest AI
chips out there which will be the Nvidia
Ruben. Um but it is still immensely
powerful for AI inferencing. uh and
there's not enough of these inferencing
chips on the market, the domestic
producers cannot get the capacity and
production up to the point where they
will satisfy local demand. So there's
that and then also I think Beijing
realizes that AI is a frontier that they
must be competitive in if not win. Uh
quite simply they need to surpass the US
in what's going to be a defining modern
era technology. So I think there is that
impetus as well.
>> Edwin, thank you. Edwin Chen there and
their team with that scoop when it comes
to Nvidia, but certainly could be a
pretty big potential win for the
company, that access to the Chinese
market once again. And stay with us as
we speak with the co-founder and COO of
Mini Max, Yay Yun. That interview live
from the Hong Kong Exchange. [music]
He's going to be speaking with Steve at
10:00 a.m. Hong Kong time. You're
watching the China Show.
[music]
>> [music]
>> right, we're looking at futures pointing
to a slightly higher open. Uh we're also
just getting the fix of the day out 701
uh 28 [music] against the US dollar
relative to estimates of 683. Do the
math. That's about the spread uh between
the two. Certainly the the FX
conversation today really points to the
US with everything from the jobs report,
a potential ruling from the US Supreme
Court uh on tariffs. I we can get to all
that bit later on, but yes, that's just
the other side of the yuan conversation.
>> Yeah, potentially $150 billion dollars
of tariffs that could be cancelled if in
fact the Supreme Court rules against uh
the these Trump tariffs. So that
certainly is a lot at stake for more
than a thousand companies that have
already filed for lawsuits on that
front. So certainly that's the one thing
to watch in the next few days or a few
hours. Uh let's bring in Joshua Crab,
head of Asia-Pacific equities at Robico.
He joins us here in our studios. Joshua,
happy new year.
>> Happy New Year.
>> Um I think it's one of the few years
that we've actually have seen Asia
equities outperform the US for 2025. Are
we likely to replicate that sort of
success this year?
>> Why think so? [laughter] I think I think
it's a pretty simple. We've been waiting
a long time for this, right? It's been a
decade, basically a decade. Um and uh
you know I think what's happened is you
know all these asset allocators gonna be
sitting down beginning of this year
saying okay what's happened we've had
Asia outperform is it going to happen
again and then they're going to look at
valuations and the valuation gaps are
pretty big number one number two people
are not heavily weighted in it number
three there's a lot of cash sitting on
the sidelines and economic activity is
starting to increase arguably from low
levels outside of the US for the first
time so I think we're set up for this to
continue for that valuation gap to
continue to close
>> and just in terms of specific specific
markets in each. I mean, you talked
about a valuation gap, right? And that
also varies between the different
markets. Where where do I take advantage
of that the most, do you think?
>> I mean, look, the obvious one that's
sitting out there is is Southeast Asia.
The problem with Southeast Asia, there's
a few issues sitting over it, but
>> there's no AI there, too, though.
>> There's there's not, but there was there
wasn't a lot of AI in what people saw at
Korea at the end of last year or people
weren't thinking about that in China at
the end of last year or, you know, and
so I think there's a lot of these things
sort of, you know, that are sort of
sitting out there. But for me again I
think you know that lesson of Korea last
year I think it was up 97% last year
>> and you know at this you know the
beginning of last year or sitting there
talking about political upheaval we're
talking about you know things are not
looking really really good and that was
the surprise market. So I think you know
Southeast Asia is the one to just keep
your eye on at that that sort of margin.
It's very cheap. It's literally never
been cheaper and it's got great
long-term prospects. So I think that's
you know one to really just have a keep
in your back pocket for this year. Is is
there still need to allocate to North
Asia though just given what you've seen
in Korea because it seems like
is and is it going to be more driven by
tech leadership than any sort of
reflation cycle you think?
>> Yeah. I think what's being interesting
if we sort of look at what's happened
you know like again you know if we go
back to the end of last year it's like
well AI is only a US story right
>> that that's the only stories around the
US and and what we've seen is people
start going you know well actually you
need you need some you need some HBM
right uh or or maybe some other
companies can benefit from this or maybe
some other companies can take some
advantage out of that and we've seen
that you know being helping in Korea
we've seen that helping in China which
were which were disliked last year as
well so I think that will sort of
continue to happen and people can start
looking for other areas right you know
are there other parts where they can can
benefit from that maybe in some of the
industrial supply chain um you know for
example it might be in things like with
the packaging technology changing uh
maybe you know things like heat sinks as
the heat power starting to pick up so I
think there are still opportunities but
not quite as obvious as it was
>> I mean anecdotally I'm not sure how much
more underweight still are global
investors at this part of the world
after a year obviously that we've had
last year and I wonder how much room to
the earlier point you're making that has
to squeeze even further. Yeah, I think
it's always hard to get a real honest
answer to that because you know a lot of
them are surveys and surveys often tell
you what people want to have been rather
than what they actually are. Yeah. Um
but if we look at the flow data and
again if I look at what anecdotally
we're seeing over the last sort of 6
months or so you're starting to see it
creep in slowly.
>> Okay.
>> And and I think that's what sort of
happened because you know people feel
like they may have missed out a little
bit then people sort of chase a little
bit. Um, but I really think that when
you think about those really large pools
of money, whether it's sovereign wealth
funds, insurance companies or whatever
else, they tend to really look at this
at the start of each year. And I think
that is something that, you know, we
will start to see sort of sort of flow
back into it. And we we are seeing more
interest. We're seeing more people
asking questions around Asian markets
for as I said for the first time and I
can remember in almost 10 years, right?
>> Yeah. You mentioned about the valuation.
Is it is it is it the fact that Asia is
actually catching up to the US or is US
normalizing to Asia?
>> Yeah. I I think this is the going to be
the really important question over the
course of this year. Right? So the US is
pretty fully valued, right? We think
that's sort of okay. There's still money
on the sideline. Earnings are still
reasonably good. There's still fiscal
stimulus coming at the margin. But if we
look at Asia, it's gone from being very
very cheap, particularly certain markets
like uh Korea and China to being not
quite as cheap but still reasonably
cheap. So then the big question is is
like these gaps tend to change. So do we
see a big correction in the US or do we
see Asia continue to move up? And again,
this comes back to when we sort of look
at money sitting on the sidelines. Uh we
look at the, you know, uh earnings
revision starting to pick up. They're
actually starting to pick up to sort of
better levels. Uh and we think those
that allocation needs to sort of switch.
So we think you see more of a catch up
uh in these other markets. Uh you know,
again, now that may happen quickly. Uh
that can sometimes happen in a couple of
quarters in which case the second half
of the year may be tougher because that
valuation support will not be there and
that's why we just really need to keep
an eye on these markets.
>> What's the the macro overlay? What
happens if the Fed cuts more than
consensus? Let's call it two cuts now.
Is that is that a a pro- US tilt? Is
that does that help all boats?
>> Yeah, I think it'll be Yeah, I think
it'll help all boats. And I think what
the the reality is, you know, it'll stop
any risk of a US correction, right? And
and then I think again people are going
to start thinking, okay, where do I make
my money? And if we look back, say to
2000 when we saw that big move up in the
US, right? End of Asia financial crisis,
no one likes Asia. you know, the US is
taking the lead in mobile phones, taking
errors in, you know, in these sort of
areas. And then people start to think,
well, actually, there's these other
companies in Asia that are really cheap
in telco, in media. You saw that big
catch-up start to happen before you saw
the sell-off. And it sort of feels like
that in that sort of environment at the
moment.
>> If you talk about valuations and you
mentioned Southeast Asia, where does
India fit the South Asia story? Because
they were clearly a lagger last year.
>> Yeah. Is this going to be a rerating in
India this year given you know
domestically it seems like there's some
growth drivers there now?
>> Yeah. So for us at the end of last year
India was pretty expensive. You know
over the last couple of years seen a lot
of money move from China into India.
People got very very exuberant. The the
valuation premium to other emerging
markets hit an all-time high. So to us
that looks stretched. Now over the
course of last year you've seen not just
that come down you've seen the likes of
Korea and China come up. So that gap has
closed a bit. It's still not a it's
still not a standout cheap market unlike
Southeast Asia. Um but it's got to a
point where it's reasonable, right? So
you should be looking for stocks in that
sort of market. We've seen a couple of
other things happen as well. The GST
cuts, we've seen a few moves to try and
stimulate that economy. So um I think
it's one to look for it, but more at a
stock level rather than just saying,
"Hey, this market's going to be a strong
performer." Whereas getting back to
Southeast Asia, if we do see something
happen there at a macro level, people
are going to start going, "Wow, this is
super cheap." And then again, we saw
what happened in South Korea. We're in
South Southeast Asia in particular. Are
you
>> um well, Indonesia is the big market
that people like to look at, but even
you know the likes of Philippines and I
think one of the other surprise markets
last year we don't talk a lot about
because Frontier was Vietnam because
that was seen as a very similar scenario
was considered um people had their
concerns around tariffs. We actually saw
pretty good performance last year
despite all those macro concerns and we
think those type of markets continue to
do well. their long-term prospects are
um uh you know a lot better because
lower GDP per capita, better
demographics than some of the Southeast
Asian other Southeast Asian countries.
>> Joshua, happy new year. Have a good one.
Let's do this again. Joshua Crab there,
head of Asia-Pacific equities, bullish
case for equity markets in 2026 there
out of Rico. Uh Miniax, we're up 43% uh
in the early going. There we go. Uh
we'll have more of course on this is one
of the three uh debuting here today here
in Hong Kong. Hangen Index coming up on
your screens. [music]
Uh we have a I think it's a 9 or 10 year
bond auction today. Uh 2035 bonds to be
more specific I believe there [music] uh
in China today. So watch that closely.
This is the China show.
[music]
Live pictures out of Hong Kong Exchange.
Of course, Miniax at debut looking
pretty good here. Right now we're up
42%. And of course it's just one of
three as you mentioned with Sujo Rebo
Life Science that is of course a biotech
company and then Eunan Gishun Resources
they're a minor. So yeah all the kind of
hot sectors are all kind of seeing a
flavor of that doing quite well with
these companies here today. So there you
go double digit gains for all three here
but certainly for miniax that's going to
be a key one to watch because it it
almost as a test to see whether there is
more investor enthusiasm in the software
side of things when it comes to AI.
>> Yeah. Um I mean certainly there's been a
rotation within into the hardware and
some of these equipments, right? So it's
really a test and not just today, right?
So we'll see how this actually trades
over the next few weeks or so. It's
mostly been a fantastic first day.
>> Um I I got to say though over the coming
weeks uh most have actually come off uh
those highs, but this is of course a a a
very long-term story more than anything
else. So we'll get to that in a moment.
Also coming up in the next few minutes
or so is uh December inflation numbers
coming through. So watch it very very
closely. Uh we we are expecting a pickup
uh perhaps food prices. Uh so we'll
unpack the story for you once the
numbers [music] break including the
opening bell and of course the trading
debut debuts here in Hong Kong. Happy
Friday. The open is next. [music] This
is the China show.
[music]
Welcome back. Another day, another set
of Chinese tech companies [music]
hitting the markets, raising money.
We're 30 seconds to the opening bell and
of course the banging of the three gongs
[music] on your screens. are mad at the
ground. Steven Angel is there for us
live. Steve,
>> so obviously we're waiting for the gong
for the debutan here in Hong Kong of
Miniax, one of China's largest
generative AI startups seen as a
challenger, a lower capital challenger
to the likes of Open AI and Anthropic.
Let's hear the countdown to the gong
here in Hong Kong.
Obviously,
we have the gong here. We have the open
of trade for one of China's largest
generative AI startups that is Miniax.
Coming up in the next half hour, we have
we'll have the co-founder as well as the
COO coming up and talking to us about
the plans going forward. Where are they
going to spend uh those proceeds from
this $619 million US IPO? Again, the
generative AI space in China is an
opensource, lower capital, fewer chips
environment, lower leaner headcount. Can
they compete on a global stage with the
likes of Open AI, Anthropic [music]
and others which of course have a much
higher capital base and there just like
in the US there are questions about the
amount that is being spent in China as
well on the infrastructure. When will
these generative AI players be
profitable and have reliable revenue
streams to essentially justify uh what
could be uh some lofty valuations as the
debutant here miniax up 37%
in the opening minutes of trade here in
the Hong Kong stock exchange. Gonna send
it back to you. Stay tuned in the next
half hour where we'll have the
co-founder and COO.
Yeah, look forward to that interview
here and certainly it seems like so far
pretty good debut for Miniaax and after
what we saw with their rival Zoo this
week was a bit more of a lackluster
debut for that company. So we'll see can
this whole AI trade extend more into the
software side of things. Uh that
certainly is going to be the key
question for the market here today. Also
another question about inflation whether
we see it or not in China. those numbers
just coming through here. CPI uh align
with estimates 0.9%
uh yearonear in terms of uh price
increases there. PPI prices once again
falling 1.9% just oh slightly better
than estimated there but yeah same story
seems still seems to be Dave. Yeah. Um
and you know I think that the broader
outlook uh on well on on PPI let me
start with that is that the low base
effect will start to show up and I think
also keep in mind right we have
underlying metrics like you have
commodity prices most in the basket have
started to pick up. So that's starting
to show up uh in some of the PPI numbers
or some of the forward-looking
underlying price surveys like PMI for
example. Um and at some point this year
I think it's mid this year BE thinks
we'll actually turn we might turn
positive on that might turn positive.
CPI that's still an open question but
that has to more to do with demand side
and also a lot of the efforts we've seen
this in fact this year only right see
battery operators online platforms to
curb excessive price competition how
that sort plays out
>> and there was just a line recently from
even just the auto sector where despite
what regulators are saying they're
defying what what is being told about
you know really anti-involution and
they're still cutting prices uh at the
start of the year so that certainly is
one thing to watch still uh within some
of these sectors there that are feeling
those price wars. You take a look when
it comes to the open of markets and yeah
it's slow going but we're still seeing
some decent gains when it comes to hang
as tech is about about 31%. Baba is up
4% here. Um you know it's interesting
because you have the likes of Morgan
Stanley as Laura Wang her team are
basically have said you know things are
looking pretty constructive uh in the
next 6 to 12 months for Chinese stocks.
The the the sentiment seems to be much
more positive if you take a look at
liquidity. uh when you take a look at
the optimism around AI and the like
here. So notably improved they said when
it comes to the positive vibes
>> in in the Asia market. Yeah. So let me
just read that quote because in fact uh
uh their team just dropped that in our
inboxes. You could check actually email
it just fell. So market sentiment rose
notably in a higher turnover entering
2026. Stronger currency to Ivon's point.
Ample liquidity constructive on China
over the next 6 to 12 months. You have
liquidity support. You have ongoing tech
advancement and a broad set of thematic
opportunities within this great Chinese
market. In fact, just on the chips,
right, that's coming up on your screens
as well. This is also in the Nvidia
story, too.
>> Yeah. So, the fact that according to our
sources that Beijing has now allowed for
some some sectors, some companies uh to
access these Nvidia H200 chips. Uh and
the timeline is interesting as soon as
this quarter. So we're already hearing
that there might be some interest in the
likes of Alibaba and in some of these
pre-orders for those chips as well. So
that certainly could be negative for of
course these domestic names like SNYCON
semi. You are seeing that negative
reaction across Capricorn Tech here as
well this morning. Oil stocks we talk
about that bump up in prices that we saw
uh overnight here. Is that a short
squeeze certainly but that is benefiting
some of these oil names like Cape
Petrochina but you know you add some of
the tensions that we're seeing in Iran.
It's not just a Venezuela story Dave. So
there are still, you know, maybe a need
to kind of add a bit more of that
geopolitical premium on on oil.
>> Yeah, the floor is more solid now
despite the separate narrative that
we'll get going to get more oil in the
market that the premium is going to push
prices uh even further higher. And
certainly that takes us really nicely
into the CPI conversation and PPI
because there is an a a broader
commodities component there when it
comes to PPI and it's not just oil,
right? You have this week it's copper,
it's zinc, um obviously precious metals
and everything else. Let's bring in uh
Dan Wong out of Singapore, China
director at the Eurasia Group. All
things economics, macroeconomics, and
perhaps even geopolitics. Dan uh h happy
new year to you and thank you for
joining us. Why don't we get started
with just your broad take. So the CPI
print just now in line with estimates
market is wondering though what happens
to that number this year? Where do you
think inflation goes this year?
Well, if we're talking about PPI, it
might go up, especially because it's the
first year of the 15th five-year plan.
There's a high commitment of a number of
new projects, especially in the
manufacturing sector. So, the demand is
high. But when it comes to CPI, uh we
have to keep in mind that CPI ultimately
is still a monetary phenomenon and the
central bank is still quite unwilling to
cut interest rates. their goal is still
very much to the long term supporting of
the high-tech sector and modern
industrial chain. So I don't see the
possibility of a short-term reverse
actually for the inflation trend.
>> Okay. Um in terms of the outlook then
for for growth in China this year, do
you think that they can still aim for
that 5% growth target? You know, how
easy of a target is that going to be
reached for 2026? Because it seemed to
be pretty easy last year.
Last year was actually very difficult.
Uh we can't forget how difficult it was
for China in quarter two and quarter
three under the pressure of the tariffs.
But then export uh has been
outperforming almost every single month.
And this year I believe the GDP target
will have to once again be about 5% if
not higher. And one big reason is that
the export sector has been consistently
underestimated in the past couple of
years. And with more Chinese companies
going global, they're going to import
way more than before, including the
Chinese machinery, uh, raw materials,
industrial inputs, technology, labor,
technical assistance. So, that will be
all counted for as the export for China
this year. And I'm actually quite
optimistic.
>> Can I ask you about the currency? We've
been on a strengthening trend over the
last, I don't know, seven, maybe eight
weeks. And is there an implicit stronger
currency policy you think what's h what
what's changed you is has anything
changed is my my my question
>> um based on the broader discussion
within the policy circle it seems that
the dominant tone is still on the
stability of the currency and the recent
revaluation of yan is mostly backed by
this passive decline of the dollar it's
not really a revaluation from the
central bank
>> and the capital control is not loosening
and we can see that yuan in the long
term will have to be reevaluated
precisely because China's relations with
its trading partners uh besides the US
is more important a stronger yan would
uh make it uh easier for China to make a
case to export more to those countries
>> Dan hold that thought we'll have more
from Dan Wong there China director at
Eurasia Group we have more on the eco
outlook for China and beyond with B&B
Paraba this next hour as well plus mood
Ratings is going to join us live to
discuss their report on China's
corporate outlook for 2026. [music] This
is Bloomberg.
All right, welcome [music] back. We got
to talk about oil Venezuela, the short
and the extremely long-term
conversation that we need to have there.
If in fact we do get to realize, I'm
sure you've all heard about it. You
know, the world's biggest oil reserves.
It's it's reserves until you're able to
pump it out of the ground. It's reserves
only, right? And a lot of capex decadesl
long commitments. In fact, you have big
oil. We understand nearly 20 oil
executives are slated uh to meet
President Trump and top officials at a
White House. Uh that's later on Friday.
That's as the the Trump team pushes them
to help rebuild the battered energy
sector in Venezuela. Let's bring in
Steven Stapinsky who leads our Asia
energy coverage who joins us from
Singapore. And you know, on paper it
already looks very difficult, expensive,
and a lot of patience is needed here. Uh
Stephen, but yeah, just underscore the
how massive of an undertaking this will
be and whether or not big oil will be
behind this.
All right, let's let's let's focus on
how massive this is. Um, so Venezuela
produces about 800,000 barrels per day
of oil. Um, in the early 2000s it was 3
million. In the 70s it was 4 million. So
there's a lot of potential to go back,
but over the last two decades there's
been a lack of investment. There's been
corruption and their infrastructure has
really um deteriorated. Um, pipes aren't
working like they're supposed to be
working. Rigs have been pulled off. And
so this does require big investment to
get back to that 3 million per day
barrel uh barrels per day of of of
production that they had about 20 years
ago. Analysts have forecast that that
could take about 10 billion per year for
a decade to accomplish. Um it could just
take billions of dollars to keep
production where they are at the moment.
So you're looking at something that's
going to require a lot of money in in
deep pockets. That brings in big oil.
That's why Trump is having this big
party. Maybe he'll serve McDonald's. We
don't know what's going to happen there,
but they're definitely going to talk uh
oil and they're going to talk investment
um within the country. And I think the
big thing in focus is trying to get
American companies to put dollar
investments in into the country to build
their infrastructure back up because if
you don't have that, they can't pump
more. And that's one thing that Trump
has really kind of highlighted is that
this is a prize. It's an oil prize that
they can use share the profits with the
local government, but it's something
that they could help. And Trump wants
oil prices to be down to $50. You know,
we're around $60 right now, high $50 uh
for WTI. He wants us down to $50. He
wants to bring down uh inflation. He
wants lower prices at the pump, but it's
very unclear what's going to be agreed
upon, which is why this Friday meeting
is going to be in focus. Is the Trump
administration going to offer
potentially maybe um subsidies? Is it
going to offer guarantees? Because if
you're an executive at Exxon or Chevron
and you're looking at the situation, why
invest money in a country that maybe
geopolitically could be challenging,
maybe if the ne next administration, the
relations could quickly sour? You don't
know what's going to happen in the long
term. Whereas, you have investments in
shale fields in the United States that
maybe are more of a sure bet. And then
lastly, why invest now when oil prices
are are already so low? We're at the
lowest level in years. Wh why why do
that? Is this is this a period where
maybe you take your foot off the gas um
for for for new investment or new
massive investment? So all of those
things are swirling around this meeting
that's coming to head at the end of the
week.
>> Yeah, I think you laid out quite well,
Stephen. I think and and what your team
has really written about in terms of
sourcing from some of these big oil
companies is that there seems to still
be a massive gap between the vision and
what it takes to make to meet reality.
And I think at this point a lot of
people are are unwilling to say no as
well to the president given that sort of
ambition. Stephen, thank you so much for
kind of highlighting what's at stake
here at this meeting today. He leads our
Asia energy coverage uh in Singapore as
well. And the US move to really
strongarm Venezuela also threatens to
open up new flash points with China.
Let's bring back Dan Wong, China
director at the Eurasia Group. She's
still with us here as well. Well, I
think one of the things that really has,
I guess, driven, I guess, the US to to
do to seize Venezuela in some ways is is
the fact that we have seen China and and
and its influence into the Latin America
and the Western Hemisphere. Do you see
China in any way react, you know,
responding in a big way to to what we've
seen in the last few days?
>> Um, in terms of uh commitment beyond
verbal condemnation, I don't see more of
a comeback from China. It has been quite
conservative when it comes to more
investment commitment or military
commitments in the Latin American
region, especially when it comes to
Venezuela. It represents one of those
sunk cost relationship that China has
committed long time ago to invest in
infrastructure. But when it comes to
political influence during the years
under the US pressure, China has made
very little inroad.
>> Okay. Well, the it could be it could
well be let me just rephrase it. It
could well be a sunk cost specifically
on Venezuela.
Let me just use an accounting concept.
It still is an ongoing concern as it
pertains to China's influence in Latin
America. How does it change that broader
strategy then?
>> Well, China's Latin American strategy is
a quite important node of its belt and
road initiative. But in the past decade,
we can see that the public financed
projects has been steadily declining.
But the private interest remains. We
have seen a lot of Chinese companies
investing in Latin America. So if we're
talking about influence of sphere of the
economic perspective, China has a pretty
high impact on the region. But
politically, militarily or in other
initiative, China is really lagging
behind. But one positive improvement
I've seen significantly in the past few
years is in terms of the monetary
cooperation. And in last December, uh,
President Xiinping came out to talk
about its Latin America strategy and its
policy paper. And there at the center of
it, it's about deepening the financial
collaboration and the military
collaboration uh monetary collaboration.
And that means China's R&B
internationalization in Latin America
will deepen and the trade settlement uh
will have more of a market especially
when when it comes to countries under
sanctions from the US.
>> Yeah. When you talk about these spheres
of influence, right, this quote unquote
donor doctrine that the president has
has named it of of the US has the you
know the authority to assert control
over Latin America uh and to actually
reject outside countries from getting
involved.
>> What do you think that China how China
looks at that right now? I mean does
does that give any sort of move for
China to to claim East Asia for example?
The implications for Taiwan do you think
that there are any? and are they valid?
>> The Latin America is not really a
playbook for China strategy on Taiwan
and China is quite pragmatic when it
comes to this fear of influence concept.
Uh if similar situation like Venezuela
operation happened in Asia, China would
have responded way more forcefully than
what it did after uh this incident. Um
we have to acknowledge that uh the cost
of control economically or politically
increase exponentially with distance and
South America it cannot be further from
China anywhere on earth but for Asian
region it is really the sphere of
influence for China even if we don't
fully agree with the whole concept China
has more of an economic impact rather
than political impact for any of those
countries but nonetheless uh the
political and economic coercion is more
likely when it comes to Taiwan. And we
can see that uh uh the China hawks uh
after the Venezuela operation has toned
down uh significantly as well. Um
because the popular narrative before was
that the east is rising, the west is
declining. But now it seems that all of
a sudden people all realize that America
has the military might to just deter
whatever China wants to do uh to Taiwan
if they really want to.
>> Yeah. But hasn't China taken advantage
of this opportunity to well largely and
we've had an interview this week that
talks about that to discredit the United
States for at least in this specific
case its disregard for sovereignty.
uh the international law certainly is
not binding for big powers uh like the
US. So China could take advantage of
that. But when it comes to practical
measures against Taiwan, it probably
will be more realistic for China to use
economic coercion, more of a sanction
for Taiwanese companies or more
restrictions on the shipping routes. But
for a military attack, it is very uh
much a last resort decision. Um because
if China really decides to do this, it
has to make sure that it's a quick
decisive win. It has to make sure that
it doesn't turn into this wicked
situation like Gaza or a prolonged war
like Ukraine and Russia because after
that the perceived military uh military
credibility of China will be badly
damaged if it's not really a quick win.
>> Just a theoretical exercise, let's
assume for a moment that this did not
happen. Venezuela this year. Does it in
any way affect how does it change, if
any at all, China's foreign policy
priorities this year? And what would
those be agnostic of whether or not this
thing happened or not?
>> Well, we just published our top risks
for the year. Actually, the China US
relation and the Taiwan issue are not
among the top risks. They are just red
herrings. and China will do everything
in their power to make sure that this
year the China US relation will have
this stable environment. Uh especially
before the April Trump visit to China
and also later in the year she will
president she will reciprocate uh and
visit Washington. So this is quite a
diplomatic year and for China the
priority is really to take this time as
a breathing room to fix some of the
domestic vulnerabilities and domestic
economy is certainly one of them but
mostly it's about the neighbor the
neighborhood environment China has been
engaging quite heavily with its
neighbors uh the Assean countries uh the
Korean uh development we can see is
quite positive the bilateral relation
with Japan uh has been a very um risky
stage and there is no way that China is
going to backing out to back out in its
current position. So uh it has to engage
as much as possible with the rest of
Asia.
>> Den Wong, thank you so much. Happy New
Year. We'll speak again. China director
there at the Eurasia Group joining us
out of Singapore. If uh you're one of
our viewers and clients, you can rewatch
[music] that specific interview we just
did there with Eurasia. Check it out. TV
go is a function that you run [music]
and yeah be part of the conversations
here. We have a few more coming up here
on shows one on global economics one on
uh corporates uh and financial [music]
and fiscal net gearing that sort of
thing ratings and financial health
across corporate China. [music] So if
you want to be part of those
conversations do of course chime in
using the TV go function. This is
[music]
right a very quick glance at markets.
You really tin want to watch it very
closely here. [music] So yeah, Glen Core
talks merger world's biggest minor in
focus. We're down to 6% [music] the
biggest drag on the benchmark today.
Okay. It certainly does not certainly
helps that fact [music] that it is a
very heavily weighted stock as well. Uh
right, a lot of listings here in Hong
Kong. You have three and they're doing
well. In fact, we've crossed the [music]
50 handle on Miniax. We're now up 54%.
So stay tuned of course for our
interview coming up there uh with
Miniax. It's done with [music] Steve of
course. Uh what are they going to do
with the money? Genai, that's a
conversation worth having not just today
but beyond. Two other listings are doing
substantially well and the geopolit
[music]
geopolitical overlay is still playing
out across these defense related stocks
across the Asia Pacific. [music] Plenty
more ahead. This is moment.
Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at the HSI half hour into the
session and we've bounced [music] off
some of the lows here right now. So you
are seeing a little bit more momentum
coming back in [music] this market but
uh most of the region is actually seeing
a bit of retreat once again here uh just
given what we expected [music] here the
US payrolls number you have a possible
Supreme Court ruling on President
Trump's tariffs and whether they are
going to be deemed illegal or not. So uh
there was initially this rotation out of
tech shares but in in in Asia or at
least I should I say in China it's quite
the opposite actually when you take a
look at some of these big names uh
>> it really is in fact the the Nvidia
story helps on the margin right so at
least now if you think about it this is
a very simplistic way of looking at it
now they have options as it pertains to
two generations behind in chips Alibaba
is up about 4% u and of course just to
be clear it it's that's still a could
right it could happen as early as this
quarter and that will depend of course
on who gets access to to what
specifically. Hanging index, stay tuned
for this. So, we've actually run the
numbers and it's plausible
that the Hanging Index could actually
see a fresh record this year. Uh we'll
lay out those numbers for you uh later
on in the show. LG Electronics out with
some numbers that have come through so
far. 4Q operating loss 109 billion1. The
estimate was for a profit. Market is
reacting adversely as you can see on
your screens. Uh very quickly, Hong Kong
listings has continued to be a top
story. It's been extremely busy and
we're only in the first week, right? 56%
trading debut of Miniax and the other
two of course are also doing
substantially well in their first day of
trade. If you're tech, if you're
biotech, if you're a combination between
the two robotics, it's certainly been a
very good time to list price up realize
your value and then the secondary market
also gets their dip. So why not?
>> Yep. Certainly has been a good one,
especially when it comes to minax as
well. Let's get to of course the Hong
Kong Exchange. Our chief North Asia
correspondent Stephen Engel is standing
by there with of course our exclusive
guest Steve.
>> Yeah, that's right. It's Miniaax's
co-founder and chief operating officer,
Yay Yun. Thanks so much for joining us
exclusively here at the Hong Kong
Exchange on the debut of Miniax Stock
Code 100. very symbolic as well because
I know the founder is essentially a ones
and zeros [laughter] uh you know the
binary code of mathematics right uh so
congratulations first and foremost how
do you feel because you did price this
listing at the high end of the range it
had high demand 1,800 times overs
subscribed retail trench 70 times overs
subscribed on the institutional uh
trench and now we're seeing a 58% pop up
is this a vindication of of your plan
going forward.
>> So I think all our group feel excited
today but it's also just a normal day.
We will invest all the resources to
achieve our mission we set up from day
one which is intelligence with everyone
[music]
also it's our understanding about AGI.
So what's intelligence we want to be to
bring the worldass technology foundation
models to all the world. So in the past
almost four years every single year we
make like technology breakthroughs we
deliver worldclass models in each
modality to the world and what's with
intelligence. So we hope all the world
users enterprise could use our models.
So currently we are serving around 200
million users across all the world and
more than 100k enterprise customers from
more than 100 countries are using our
model. So how do you scale your
multimodal capabilities
at without being profitable and without
having a large capital base unlike an
open AI or anthropic and others? You're
a open-source lower capital model. How
do you scale those multimodal
capabilities not only in China but
abroad as well?
>> I think I have been working in AI for
around like 10 years. I think the beauty
of foundation model is like a general
purpose use model. So you make one model
and different kinds of use cases no
matter if users are enterprise customers
you are using your models. So we put
most resources on the models if the
users they think your model have the
best performance in their use cases they
just directly use it as you said. So in
the past around like four years we we
really focus on the capital efficiency
cost efficiency. So we had only spent
around 500 million USD in the in total
probably only one or 2% of the VG
spending. So we did all the optimization
made creativations
on the on it. Yeah.
>> How do you compete though if you're
going to go global? How do you compete
with an open AI or others that are
throwing lots of capital at their
business? Uh is it viable? And what is
the technology gap looking like in the
next few years? Actually I I don't think
it's a competition. It's more about all
the top Thailand cross the world they
bring the technology breakthrough to the
society to the end users. So you will
see each models have pros and cons. So
we focus more resources on building the
models building the best uh product
experience to get more and more users
from all the world to use it. Now, your
proceeds have been stated are going to
be used for research and development for
other models over the next 5 years or
so. What are going to be your chip
needs? We know that there's a
bifurcation in the chip world. Uh we're
hearing as well the Chinese government
might approve Nvidia's H200 for China uh
in in this quarter perhaps. Is that
something you need to look at importing
uh more advanced accelerators for your
training and the like? I think in every
industry with a really high growth. So
when the new technology comes here so
you will see every startups all the
companies they face resources constraint
probably cheap constraint computing
constraint is only one of the
challenges. So uh in the past you will
see our model performers and our product
performers. So our resources is stable
we can get access to all of them. So uh
we focus more on our R&D and foundation
model. So we just use whatever chips who
makes sense for us at this that specific
stage.
>> Is your goal to stay indigenously with
your chips locally made chips or would
you buy Nvidia chips as well?
>> Uh actually we have a really uh high
capital efficiency and we really focus
on cost efficiency. So uh it doesn't
matter what kinds of chips it is. It's
more about which chips can give us best
ROI which can help us to achieve our
mission to make the best technology to
accessible to all of the users across
the world.
>> So when does the emphasis turn from
efficiency to profitability and also
getting that steady revenue growth that
will then justify a higher stock price
valuation.
>> So we put lots of R&D resources and
innovations on the efficiency part. You
will see our API our we have an
enterprise business you will see the
gross profit margin of our API is more
than 65%.
Which is probably already one of the
highest globally. [music]
So uh we focus more on make the best
technology and the best user experience.
People would love to pay for the best
performers models for their use cases.
Now speaking of the different models and
you have multimodel capabilities, you've
also come out of a price war essentially
the a race to the bottom some have
called uh because of you're trying to
keep cost down and you want to survive
as well. There was a battle of survival
and you have uh been one of the
survivors but at the same time the
startups are not the only ones. The big
players Alibaba, Bite Dance, Tens and
others. How do you compete with them at
a lowcost basis?
>> Actually, uh it's not I don't think
that's a press word. It's more about the
performers competition. So, you need to
make your model best and the people I
mean end user or enterprise customers,
they don't choose your model because of
its cheap or expensive. It's more about
its performers. So, that's the key as
you said. I think it's not about the
competition between like all these big
giants but it's more about some of them
they are like our cloud providers and
some of their products they are using
our models so it's more about the
collaboration all these company bring
the foundation models to all the world
>> so where are going to be your
more feasible areas to expand abroad uh
because again you know going overseas is
is going to be a big challenge isn't
Uh actually we set our strategy going
global grow up global from day one. I
studied in the US I had been working
there. I'm working here right now. So I
think the beauty of foundation model is
just to build one model all the world in
different languages. They just to use
this model. Yeah the same model. So
focus on your model, focus on your
product. It's the key. Yeah. There is a
no boundaries among like different
regions.
>> Okay. Hey, Yid, thanks so much and
congratulations and happy birthday as
well.
>> Oh, thank you.
>> Going to send it back to you from the
Hong Kong Stock Exchange where we saw a
fairly successful debut of Mini Max
Stock Code 100 here in Hong Kong.
>> Yeah,
>> what a birthday.
>> What a birthday. It's quite rare that
someone gets the opportunity to bang a
gong for their birthday, but yeah, there
there we go. Fantastic. Steve,
>> go party. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Go go go. It's Friday anyway.
[laughter]
Um, pints on me, pints of water. Okay.
Uh, coming up, we're we're talking all
things macroeconomics here. So, what is
the state of the global economy given
[music]
quite I wouldn't say very extreme, but
quite distinct possibilities as it
pertains to US rates, US growth, and the
tariff conversation given [music] the
risk of the Supreme Court, possible risk
of Supreme Court today. All that will be
coming up. Conversation with BNP's
[music] chief economist. This is the
China shop.
[music]
I'm on surprisingly the lowest dot. I'm
looking for about a point and a half of
cuts. A lot of that is driven by my view
of inflation. I gave a speech about this
and you know about a month ago in in
December at Columbia University. My view
is that almost all of the excess
inflation overtarget [music]
is due to quirks of how we calculate
inflation.
Yeah. Stephen Myron [music] there of
course joining our colleagues in New
York exclusively and the case he's
making is you know even if [music] you
cut interest rates that doesn't risk uh
that doesn't risk unwanted inflation. A
million jobs a million Americans are out
of jobs we can put them to work without
uh fueling inflation. Certainly one of
the things Jobs data is coming out today
among the many other things including
this potential
ruling from the US Supreme Court on
tariffs which is possibly if let's see
how they do and if they do it possibly
it could be very very consequential.
>> Yeah. You know, Bloomber Economics has
been kind of crunching the numbers on
really what could be at stake here. And
they put this price tag at 150 billion
dollars, David, right? If you calculate
all the sort of tariff revenue they've
accumulated up until maybe January 9th,
and that makes up, get this, three4ers
of basically President Trump's trade
policy. So, it's quite a lot uh in terms
of what could happen uh to potentially
what this means for of course the trade
agenda. So if we see actually a negative
ruling, this is what could we could see
in terms of the refunds. That's why
you've been seeing hundreds if not more
than a thousand companies that have
basically now filed for lawsuits uh to
try to get a chunk of this if in fact it
favors against the Trump administration
and deems these tariffs which is under
that international emergency economic
power act uh as illegal. So certainly
that's what at stake here this morning
and certainly what we're focusing on the
next few days is how will this all be
refunded right is it going to be up to
the Supreme Court maybe not so much
right it could be that decision leads to
the lower courts to decide how the money
is going to be divided who gets what
refunds and how this whole process is
going to work but the poly markets you
look at how the prediction markets are
looking at right now they're actually
thinking that there's a quite a bit of a
high chance that the Supreme Court is
going to vote against the Trump
administration ation. You put the odds
now for a win for President Trump at
only about 25%. You've seen that in
other sort of prediction markets as
well. Be puts it around 60% that we
could see a negative ruling. So, it's
not it's it seems like there's in terms
of the trade experts, there is a high
chance this could be something that goes
against the Trump administration. So,
lots in terms of what this could mean,
right? it essentially could put the
effective tariff rates uh from the US
Dave from 16% 14% I should say to 6 and
a half%. But they're saying it might not
last that long because you know the
Trump administration might be swift in
replacing some of these tariffs to other
more legal sort of provisions as well.
So that could still be something that
they say the the economic relief might
not actually last that long. Dave,
>> yeah, it might not be quick enough to
process the refunds and then we'll get
the number back. Yeah. But I mean
anytime you give a whiff to anybody that
there's some money to be to be had
you'll have people raising their hands
from the front row all the way all the
way to the back. Uh joining us here to
talk us through the potential
implications of that on growth the US
and abroad currencies and everything in
between. Uh here on set with us Isabel
Mateas Ilago chief economist at BNP
Parba. Good morning and very nice to see
you. Happy new year.
>> Good morning. Happy new year to you too.
>> First we don't know if the US Supreme
Court will in fact give a ruling. If
they do give one and it's adverse to
President Trump's agenda, how do I need
to be thinking about that whole new
scenarios that open up?
>> Well, first of all, I'd like to say it's
astonishing how we keep referring to
poly market as a way to guess what's
going to happen to markets. It it didn't
used to be that way. You know, we used
to look at macro data, see what the
modeling says. No, now the most events
we only have poly markets. So anyway,
it's one of those. Um, so it's obviously
a very important decision. What I'm
looking at is more the potential macro
impact and I think that's what markets
are going to be uh looking at. As you've
stated, even if the Supreme Court were
to decide or rule that the legal basis
that was used by President Trump to roll
out these tariffs was not the right one,
there are others that can be used. But
the question is indeed does the Trump
administration end up having to uh to to
to to to give out a lot of refunds. It's
not a done deal because it, you know,
these legal decisions are rarely black
and white. And so the Supreme Court
could find a way to say, well, if there
was an emergency, it was okay, but an
emergency is not something that's
open-ended. and so you know beyond a
certain date uh you know so so there is
a way for the Supreme Court to not
validate the whole thing without
necessarily opening a base for for for
Ree and for Wilsy but but but it's clear
that if we end up in a situation where
uh hundreds of billions of of dollars or
that order of magnitude of revenue that
was counted on uh all of a sudden isn't
here. uh that changes the macro pictures
and and assuming there's not going to be
any offset because we're in an electoral
year all of a sudden you have the
prospect of an outright stimulative
fiscal policy and I think uh markets
will look at that bond markets will look
at that the Fed will look at that
because that can also change the the
situation in terms of inflationary
pressures and relieving worries about
the labor market. So, it's actually a
really a really big deal, but we're not
going to know right away because uh the
Supreme Court will say what it thinks is
is is right. And then the administration
will have a choice of how much to try
and replace uh the the tariff revenue if
it's if it's gone. Let's also not forget
that President Trump seems now to
realize that uh uh the the tariffs feed
into the affordability issues that he's
trying to fight. He may also decide to
deliberately not replace all the tariffs
that have been invalidated.
>> And you yeah, you mentioned in your
report 2025 was more like the the dog
that barked that had no bite, right? All
these kind of fears of liberation day
and tariff induced inflation never
played out
>> as feared. Could that play play out in
2026, you think, or do you think it's
still going to be more bark than bite?
>> So, I think the tariffs probably uh did
have an impact, but then there were a
lot of offsets.
>> Yes. uh and I do think 2026 could play
out in a in a similar way. We'll have
shocks and there will be offsetting
shocks and at the end of the day, you
know, the macro will be okay. But it's
let's remember 2025 the numbers at the
end of the year all look fine but there
were lots of ups and downs along the way
and I think we may see something fairly
similar in 26.
>> So what assumptions are you making on
the US economy as things stand? So will
growth be better or worse and will rates
be higher or lower?
>> Right. So, we're seeing the US economy
in a in a pretty solid shape with
average growth in 20 uh 25 at just under
2% and we see this continuing into 2026
hopefully with less ups and downs along
the way. In that situation, we see the
Fed cutting one more time around March.
Uh but because again, we're not
particularly concerned about the labor
market. We we we are aware of this low
higher low fire environment but you know
as things stand there is no no no need
to be particularly worried and in fact
inflation is going to keep accelerating
for a bit before it settles back down.
So in fact we see inflation for 2025 at
around 3% on average sorry 26 similar to
2025. Uh so that's not a context in
which the Fed really will have a lot of
leeway to to deliver multiple rate cuts.
Well, you mentioned some of the offsets
that we saw to the tariff uh sort of
hits that we saw to the global economy
was AI, I guess you're assuming.
>> Um, I mean, whether it was AI
investments to even just asset prices to
even just exports, I think AI has been a
dominant theme.
>> How long can that continue,
>> do you think? Or or do you think that
we'll start to see the optimism fade
pretty soon?
>> I'm not sure. I mean it still this is
clearly a a a life-changing
worldchanging new technology and it
seems to me we're in still in the early
innings of of developments of adoption
and of you know corporates understanding
what they can do with it. So it may be
that there will be phases where the
optimism waines a bit or waivers because
right now there's there's really uh
lofty expectations in terms of the
earnings and profits that can be
generated from this. I think we're also
beginning to see a subtle shift from you
know we we call it AI but in reality you
have the chips part uh then you have the
LLM part and then increasingly you have
people saying well actually the the
biggest bang for the buck is not going
to be from LLM. that's just you know uh
productivity enhancing stuff but if you
want to generate value revolutionize
manufacturing this is a completely
different set of tools and of course
it's not the same companies involved at
every stage of the process so it's
possible that we're going to see uh a
morphing of the the optimism in this
whole uh uh space of AI now if you're
manufacturing chips chances are you're
still going to be okay because no matter
what is the main application you're
still going to need the chips but if
you're providing a particular form of AI
service then uh there may be uh waning
expectations of profits in one area and
more in another
seems to be a strong kicking in
everything together that seems to be a
strong case for the US economy how do
you think about everything else outside
the US for people trying to figure out
will US exceptionalism come back and do
I do I fade last year's rally on
everything outperforming the US
>> so it it it's it should be a somewhat
more nuanced story. Having said that, uh
we remain very bullish about Europe.
>> Uh and in fact, we see the the growth
differential between Europe and the US
shrinking further. So, you still
probably have US come out on top, but uh
we're you know, we've been bullish about
Europe throughout 2025. We were uh
pretty much alone in that camp, but
we've been proven right by the by the
data. And frankly, we see this
continuing and and the latest data
coming out, frankly, in the last uh 3
months already from all across Europe,
including uh more recently in Germany,
things are things are uh shaping up for
for a very solid 2026, you know, powered
by the the the German investment, but of
course, uh percolating through the
through the entire Euro zone. Um and all
the indicators are going in the right
direction. ECB doesn't need to do
anything else for the time being. it can
sit back and uh watch inflation stay
close to its target and uh and growth
pick up.
>> I was going to ask you about just
geopolitics before you go about the
change in world order and what we're
seeing with Venezuela. Do you see that
seeing you know any sort of disruptions
economically or at least for for supply
chains around the world especially when
it comes to oil?
>> Yes. So I'm I'm not sure we can talk of
world order anymore. Uh I think the
order bit is uh is probably gone for uh
for for for for the time being and this
is going to be a more shockprone
environment geopolitically speaking. I
think this is this is inevitable. I
think by the way the natural response to
that is for everybody to in invest more
in their own defense uh which which does
have both macro and micro uh
implications. But once you've said all
that, the reality is most geopolitical
shocks don't really have a lasting
market or or macro impact unless they
touch on critical uh global supply
chains. Uh and oil in particular is is
is is very important. Uh so you know any
shock that doesn't impact oil or some
other critical supply I would think
probably not a big deal but we need to
be prepared for uh many more shocks I
think this year. Isabelle, it's great to
have you. Isabelle Matias Lago there,
chief economist at BMP Baraba. We got
plenty more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
Some movers that we're watching, of
course, are some of the oil plays this
morning just given some of the bump up
that we saw in [music] oil prices as
well. Of course, we're counting down to
that uh big meeting between some of the
[music] oil execs with the Trump
administration when it comes to what to
do in Venezuela. The message from the
[music] president seems to be do this
for your country. So, we are seeing of
course uh oil majors and the [music]
like doing quite well here in the Asia
session. Santos is up about some 3% or
more. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
are heading to that lunch break in just
a minute or so. And there you go. We are
seeing a bit of a rally there underway.
And when it comes to equities, I think
fast retailing has a lot to do with what
we're seeing uh there. And really given
what their update on their revenue
guidance, that certainly did lift the
stock as well, lifting Japan today. Nic5
up more than 1% here right now. Yet it's
a little bit on weaker. We're now above
157 levels here as well. And JJB's are
selling off just slightly here this
morning.
>> Yeah. Unique look. That's really more my
vibe.
>> It's cold. You know, everyone's talking
about puffy jackets.
>> Yes. Down down down down down down down
down goose goose goose goose feather
down jacket. [laughter] Right. Sorry.
Okay. Which is it's very rare that I I
would I would agree with ski jackets,
right? But I think today is one of those
days where But give give me one. Okay.
Um speaking of
um something that's not too hot but not
too cold, uh inflation numbers coming
out of China, right? So slight pickup in
line with estimates. Uh the PPI is also
coming in not as deep a contraction as
the prior month and it certainly helps
that you have I think four months now of
commodity prices moving up. So that
might move the needle on PPI. CPIO
remains more of food, transport and
demand equation there. Uh but yes, in
China, inflation hits 34month high.
There we go. This rebound by food
prices. Thank you so much for that
statistic. Now, as China navigates this
deflationary pressures and how to get
around that and push back on that,
Moody's ratings says Chinese
non-financial companies should be uh
cushioned by the techdriven revenue and
proactive debt reduction on the
corporate side. specifically according
to that report. Joining us here on set
is Lena Choy, associate managing
director at Moody's ratings. Happy new
year and good morning.
>> Happy new year. Thank you for having me
again.
>> So what I just read there sounded maybe
like Greek and bit complicated. So let
me just it's in summary things are
stable.
>> Yes. And try and let me try to unpack
that a bit more for you. Um yes, the
credit conditions outlook for
non-financial corporates is stable and
it's supported and anchored by three key
factors. First is as you correctly
pointed out technology upgrades and
innovation are already helping
technology related sector companies to
post um higher than expected revenue
growth and also also on the cost line
also help them to op optimize their
efficiency as well. So that's driver
number one. Driver number two um is the
government policies supporting higher
productivity sectors and trying to
encourage Chinese companies to
rationalize competition. You know the
most recently introduced anti-involution
measures trying to in you know restore
industry margins and create create more
sustainable growth. So that's driver
number two. And last but not least of
course comes back to financial
discipline operated companies. Just to
give you a sense, you know, we do expect
debt reduction for the rated portfolio
um of companies. Um we are expecting
that total debt of rated companies will
be reduced by about 5%.
>> This is absolute value or net gearing
generally speaking.
>> Um this is absolute value, absolute
quantum of rated debt.
>> Okay, just to clarify,
>> um it seems like there's a lot of these
tech companies in particular that are
heading into like dim sum markets and
the like to really kind of raise money
and like are we likely to see more
issuance on that front this year then?
Yeah, this is definitely a trend um Ivon
that you correctly pointed out that we
have observed starting um second quarter
of last year um really and um that's a a
measure of a lot of the POE's in
particular trying to broaden further
their funding access and a lot of these
issuance that we have seen are from
highly rated companies um and for for
for the for the interest rate difference
that obviously would be a more
cost-effective way for them to broaden
their funding channel and yes we do
expect more to probably this year.
>> Outside of outside of tech, how is the
rest of the group doing?
>> Yeah, this this is where the balancing
factor comes in. Um, as I said, the
technology related companies, you know,
companies in internet services, in
higherend manufacturing and in smart
appliances for example, the aggregate
rated portfolio revenue growth we
forecast for this year is 8%. Which is
very high. But the overall um revenue
growth however would be just in the 4%.
So what that tells you is the more
traditional sectors you know property
related sectors um you know the more um
you know FMCG part probably are having
much lower to slightly decline in
revenue growth. Okay.
>> So um it's it's a bit of a mix.
>> How you looking at the property space?
It seems like we've seen more new risks
that have kind of played out or
re-emerged risks in the property sector.
Um, you know, given what we've seen in
Wanka and the like, you know, what are
you assum assuming here right now in
terms of what creditors can really get
back, the recovery rates and the like?
>> Yes, indeed. um the recent credit risk
events um in the China property
developer um area really didn't help for
a sector that has been in the dold drums
and trying to find a bottom for a couple
of years now. Um what we are concerned
is this is going to prolong the weakness
that we have seen um for a while. Um we
are forecasting our property forecast is
contracted sales this year is going to
continue declining although on the very
low base now probably the rate of
decline is going to narrow a little bit
but these credit events probably are
going to get um home buyers less
confident and worry about completion
rate. Um that definitely did not it will
not help the contractic cells. More
importantly, investor concern are going
to be reignited again. Um, and that's
going to further constrain the already
tight funding access for these, you
know, private weak liquidity property
developer. Just to give you a sense,
maturity wall is still quite big. Yeah.
>> You know, in the rated portfolio, the
the the the rated portfolio, maturity
wall this year is still in the order of
10 billion US dollars. That's quite
significant. So um you know on and off
we have seen the government put out you
know some measures mostly along the
lines of relaxing home purchase
restrictions
>> um and you know unfortunately the credit
events are probably just going to impair
the effectiveness. M now if we take out
the the industry or sector sort of
diagnostic and just look at between SOE
and POE's
>> what's the what's the main difference
you see and how does that trend this
year
>> it's a little bit uneven to be honest
David when I think about it look ses
have always stood quite firm um because
their funding access their government or
local government relationship um they
from the domestic funding channel banks
support for example they have been
always having an advantage over PoE's
now but if you look at PoE's again um
the high yield part and the investment
grade part are also different because
the rated portfolio um features POE's
that are mostly market leaders
>> for for example the internet services
companies and yeah um and with the
government's new focus on encouraging
higher productivity sectors technology
innovation and whatnot. these highly
rated and rich you know solid balance
sheet POE's they do have a role to play
you know they will to they will have to
invest more but their balance sheet
remain quite bit of above room to
support that kind of growth
>> yeah just looking at some of the ratings
actions that you did last year I think
in terms of investment grade you made
more upgrades and downgrades high yield
maybe a bit more downgrades than
upgrades but what's the outlook for 2026
right now do you do you foresee things
looking better or or do you think we
could see more downgrades
>> yeah if you look at the key drivers of
our stable outlook. I would think that
um on the technology related side, we'll
probably will we are expecting higher uh
higher revenue growth and stable margin.
That's because these technology
companies are already seeing partially
the benefits of of innovations and
technology up upgrades. either they have
broadened revenue sources or on the cost
side um they do have more livers to push
if you would to shore up the the margins
and make them more competitive.
>> Final question. I just thought about it.
It's been a really hot equity market.
Capital raising
>> that's a new funding source that perhaps
has become now more realistic for a
broader set of companies. Does that
affect how you look at financial health
and the ability to raise money not just
in debt, not just in banks, but the
equity market now seems to be a feasible
option for even smaller cap companies in
Hong Kong and in mainland China.
>> Yeah, of course. um you know equity
fundraising is definitely one of the
very viable and helpful funding channel
or funding access um that we consider
for all rated companies and you know we
did see um you know large companies
technology related you know NEV related
company coming back to Hong Kong last
year yeah for for listing so I you know
I think if if that trend were to
continue definitely that would be
helpful for the funding access
>> Lena good to have you Lena Troy there
associate managing director at Moody's
ratings.
>> Yeah. Okay. Uh, Riotinto resuming talks
of course to buy Glen Core, creating the
world's biggest company. Let's have a
look at that. 6% to the downside. Martin
Richie is with us in Shanghai to talk us
through this
Martin. So, we're we're here again.
We're here again. So, this the talks
have resumed, but you know, is it going
to go through this time is the question.
>> Uh, yeah, that's right. We have been
here again. Back in 2014, the two
companies, Riotinto and Glenor, did talk
to each other uh about a combination. Uh
this would be a very big deal in the
mining space. Uh the biggest ever, and
we've talked a lot about the biggest
ever deals potentially in mining over
the past year, but this would be it. Uh
the two companies market cap combined is
more than 200 billion. Um but as with uh
some of the other deals in the space,
there's a lot of sort of uh
complications uh in part for this one in
particular. Uh we've got uh Glenor is a
is one of the world's biggest producers
of coal. Uh Rio has already exited coal
and doesn't particularly want to be go
back into coal. So that's something they
would have to deal with. Um Rio Tinto
has a dual listing structure uh which
might complicate the deal. Um the two
companies are A lot of people point out
they they have in the certainly in the
past had very different cultures. Uh
Glenor being uh very uh aggressive uh
personalityled culture, Rio a little bit
more in the corporate side. Don't know
how much that is true nowadays. Uh and
then Rio's got a major Chinese
shareholder Chinelco who whose um
opinion will will have to be sounded out
on this on this deal. And then antitrust
would be an issue as well. It would
create one of the world's biggest copper
producers in particular. Um, and that
might have implications on the
regulatory side getting approvals from
the likes of China and other major
customers.
>> Yeah, there seems like there's still a
few gaps there as you mentioned, not
just when it comes to the culture. The
valuation of the deal itself last time
around seemed to be where the two sides
failed to agree upon. So, so what still
needs to be ironed out, do you think for
this deal to actually go through?
>> Um, it's about the it's about the
structure and uh and you know who who
gets what and and uh in terms of the the
post sort of restructure shareholding.
Um there is I think there's still a lot
to be kind of sorted out and uh in a
relatively short time frame. So Rio has
to, according to the UK rules, Rio has
to submit a bid by February the 5th. Um
although that could be subject to
delays. Um it's going to take a lot of
talks in the meantime. And we're going
to be canvasing, you know, other
companies that might have potential
interest as well. You talking about
potential interlopers. BHP is an obvious
one that we'd be thinking about here.
Martin, thank you. Martin Richie there,
our metals and mining reporter joining
us out of Shanghai at Rio Tinder share
still lower here this morning. This is
Bloomberg.
[music]
Some stories that we're tracking for you
today. Venezuela's government says it
plans to free some local and foreign
prisoners after the US capture of
President Nicholas Maduro. The National
Assembly leader announced the plan
[music] on state television describing
it as a peace gesture. It is not clear
how many prisoners would be released.
Spain says five of its [music] citizens
are among those to be freed. Reliance
Industry says it will consider buying
Venezuelan oil, but is still awaiting
clarity on whether non US buyers will
[music] have access. Reliance has been
India's top buyer of Venezuelan crude
and sources say Reliance is among major
oil firms [music] invited to meet
President Trump as the administration
pushes to rebuild Venezuela's energy
[music] sector. White House trade
advisor Petaro says US industrial
breakthroughs will eliminate China's
[music] market dominance in rare earth.
Beijing's efforts to withhold supplies
of critical minerals last year helped
fuel a trade war with the US. [music]
But Navaro told us that American
innovation will boost domestic
production.
>> The China relationship um is a a very
difficult one. China has been flexing
its muscles now in Europe, in India, in
the United States, saying basically,
"We're going to do what we [music] want,
and if you try to stop us, we're going
to take away your critical minerals
because they have they think they have a
monopoly on it. But that's just [music]
a matter of time. American innovation is
going to quickly wipe away that in
innovation, that that that threat, that
weaponization. [music]
>> And you can listen to that full
conversation between Michelle Hussein
and Peter Navaro by searching the
Michelle [music] Hussein show wherever
you get your podcast.
>> Yeah, fairly straightforward search
there. Uh, Deputy Prime Minister of
Cambodia says that the country wants to
lower the temperature in its dispute
with Thailand to protect this fragile
ceasefire. Speaking exclusively to
Bloomberg, Sunun Chanthal says also push
back really against Bangkok's assertions
that the clash was part of a battle
against scam centers operating across
the border.
Well, the ceasefire is still fragile,
but I want to reassure you that Cambodia
committed to the ceasefire. Cambodia
need peace and I'm sure Thailand also
need peace in order to build our country
our respective country for the benefit
of our respective citizen. So we are
committed to resolve the conflict
through a peaceful mean. We have
different mechanism in place. We have
GBC,
General Border Committee. We have JBC,
Joint Boundary Commission. Cambodia and
Thailand will be neighbor for next
thousands of years. So let's work
together to develop our economy for the
benefit of our people, for the benefit
of AAN. We cannot have a conflict or
else we lose the credibility of Azan. So
I hope and I wish that this conflict can
be resolved peacefully sooner rather
than later. I'd like to take this
opportunity also that we need to lower
the temperature the Cambodian citizen
also the Tai citizen let the government
work together to find a peaceful
resolution do not add fuel to the fire
>> last year in April Cambodia was among
the top of the list of President Trump's
tariff rates it was very high over 40%
you led the negot negotiations for the
Cambodia, the rate is now 19% much
lower. Now that a few months have gone
by, I I do wonder what has been the
economic uh impact of those levies so
far.
>> 2 days after the announcement, our prime
minister send a letter to President
Trump offer to discuss to negotiate in
good faith the trade between Cambodia
and the US. I believe that Cambodia was
the first country that conclude a
comprehensive reciprocal trade agreement
between Cambodia and the US. Now we are
continue to discuss with USDR regarding
certain sector that we believe should be
should receive a lower reciprocal
tariff. For example,
the garment, the textile, the footwear,
drown goods that employs nearly 1
million workers, predominantly women. So
we ask USDR to reduce those important
sector for Cambodia for potentially
reducing or zero out those sector. It's
important for Cambodia.
>> Yeah. important conversation there of
course with the deputy prime minister of
Cambodia speaking with our colleague of
course Philip Hyman's there right uh if
you're one of our subscribers you can
check that interview out watch some of
the others you might have missed here of
course on Bloomberg TV TV go it's a
function that you run plenty more ahead
this is Bloomberg
[music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
show. So, we're we're taking a look at
the the outlook for the Hanging Index,
right? So, we've run the numbers and if
if you look at it, it's very plausible
that we actually take out and by the end
of this year, even before that, we could
actually see the Hanging Index um hit a
fresh all-time high. Right? So, the
distance to the peak in 2018 is at about
28%. the average gain during an upy year
and we've had 25 of those years going
back to 86 uh is about 27%. So if you
think about it and yes I understand '
80s 90s are different 2000s but if we
have an average up year that gets us
pretty much there to an all-time high
right now when you look at the current
projection so we look at the actually
bottom up analysis you take all the
share price targets consensus from all
the analysts on hacking index stocks
specifically and you amalgamate that
it's a bottomup approach and you derive
a specific number that number is 3
31,300
so from about the current level. That's
about 22% away. And that's would be
enough to take us not quite to the
all-time high, but enough to take us
above the 2021 high. So, we could end
up, of course, at about an 8-year high,
give or take, by the end of this year.
We put that on a chart for you. That's
where we are. That's the 2021 high.
That's the 2018 high. There's the
current projection. So, we could get
there, right? So, all things equal, it's
looking like we could get a good year.
22% in the Hanging Index.
>> Yeah. Uh what was the number? 33,154.
That was the actual 2018 record, right?
>> Yeah.
>> That we might also see. And what's
what's the whole the bet? You always
have it on on X, right? Whether you put
on the Chewbacca costume or or
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I put it out
recently. So So if we get above Okay,
I'm going to get seated now. Okay. So if
we get above
>> You don't have to tell people.
>> No. Okay. Sure. So [laughter] if if we
manage to Okay. For the record, if we
get to an all-time high,
>> yes,
>> at the end of the year, at the end of
the year, it's it's it's going to be a
full-on Chewbacca costume, assuming my
bosses allow it.
>> Um, clearly the other side of the trade
is 20,000 and below. It's Care Bears
because of the bear situation. And, you
know, we could use a Chewbacca costume
now because it's quite cold. I mean, the
fur the fur could help.
>> I thought you were going to say labu or
something. More like
>> 2026, you know. We could come up with a
a midcycle June target and figure that
out. Yeah. Yeah. Little boo boo for you.
All right. Um yeah, whatever you want to
do. Bet. See, make your bets u what you
want David to end up wearing.
>> My bosses won't allow it though.
>> We'll see if we can write on the show or
not. We'll put it at least on social
media. You can get an insiders guide to
the money people shaking up the finance
hub in our Hong Kong edition newsletter
out every Thursday. David actually has
been writing exactly about this very
issue here about Hong Kong and and the
records that we could hit in this week's
newsletter there. So check it out there.
Subscribe at bloomberg.com/newsletters.
>> We're closer to that because of the big
gains we're seeing across the big stocks
mining quo Alibaba are all up 3 to 4%.
uh that's really on the back of the
precious metals move and of course also
what we're seeing across the Nvidia the
developments the potential developments
assuming of course that happens this
quarter plus everything else that's come
out so far right it's been really this
pivot into uh well within the AI space
still favored within of course some of
the names there and of course massive
trading debuts to here as well
underscoring that that bullish point
>> yeah so I think the the be sort of
reaction on the whole Nvidia story is
out and they basically say that China's
going to thread the needle really when
it comes to Nvidia's H200 access here.
Um, but the near-term benefits of this
availability of this chip are
significant, they say, and really can
expand the pool as you say, more choices
of available computing power and yeah,
allowing more actors to cross [music]
trainin thresholds and scale inference
>> across sectors. But that's why
potentially you're seeing why the tech
sector is benefiting and at least
reacting positive to that news as well.
But that's it for us here. Bye.
>> [music]